CHAPTER THE FIRST.


THE OWLS.

IN the spring of the year eighteen hundred and sixty-eight there lived,
in a certain county of North Britain, two venerable White Owls.

The Owls inhabited a decayed and deserted summer-house. The summer-house
stood in grounds attached to a country seat in Perthshire, known by the
name of Windygates.

The situation of Windygates had been skillfully chosen in that part
of the county where the fertile lowlands first begin to merge into the
mountain region beyond. The mansion-house was intelligently laid out,
and luxuriously furnished. The stables offered a model for ventilation
and space; and the gardens and grounds were fit for a prince.

Possessed of these advantages, at starting, Windygates, nevertheless,
went the road to ruin in due course of time. The curse of litigation
fell on house and lands. For more than ten years an interminable lawsuit
coiled itself closer and closer round the place, sequestering it from
human habitation, and even from human approach. The mansion was closed.
The garden became a wilderness of weeds. The summer-house was choked up
by creeping plants; and the appearance of the creepers was followed by
the appearance of the birds of night.

For years the Owls lived undisturbed on the property which they had
acquired by the oldest of all existing rights--the right of taking.
Throughout the day they sat peaceful and solemn, with closed eyes, in
the cool darkness shed round them by the ivy. With the twilight they
roused themselves softly to the business of life. In sage and silent
companionship of two, they went flying, noiseless, along the quiet lanes
in search of a meal. At one time they would beat a field like a setter
dog, and drop down in an instant on a mouse unaware of them. At another
time--moving spectral over the black surface of the water--they would
try the lake for a change, and catch a perch as they had caught the
mouse. Their catholic digestions were equally tolerant of a rat or an
insect. And there were moments, proud moments, in their lives, when they
were clever enough to snatch a small bird at roost off his perch. On
those occasions the sense of superiority which the large bird feels
every where over the small, warmed their cool blood, and set them
screeching cheerfully in the stillness of the night.

So, for years, the Owls slept their happy sleep by day, and found their
comfortable meal when darkness fell. They had come, with the creepers,
into possession of the summer-house. Consequently, the creepers were a
part of the constitution of the summer-house. And consequently the Owls
were the guardians of the Constitution. There are some human owls who
reason as they did, and who are, in this respect--as also in respect of
snatching smaller birds off their roosts--wonderfully like them.

The constitution of the summer-house had lasted until the spring of the
year eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, when the unhallowed footsteps
of innovation passed that way; and the venerable privileges of the Owls
were assailed, for the first time, from the world outside.

Two featherless beings appeared, uninvited, at the door of the
summer-house, surveyed the constitutional creepers, and said, “These
must come down”--looked around at the horrid light of noonday, and
said, “That must come in”--went away, thereupon, and were heard, in the
distance, agreeing together, “To-morrow it shall be done.”

And the Owls said, “Have we honored the summer-house by occupying it all
these years--and is the horrid light of noonday to be let in on us at
last? My lords and gentlemen, the Constitution is destroyed!”

They passed a resolution to that effect, as is the manner of their kind.
And then they shut their eyes again, and felt that they had done their
duty.

The same night, on their way to the fields, they observed with dismay a
light in one of the windows of the house. What did the light mean?

It meant, in the first place, that the lawsuit was over at last. It
meant, in the second place that the owner of Windygates, wanting money,
had decided on letting the property. It meant, in the third place, that
the property had found a tenant, and was to be renovated immediately out
of doors and in. The Owls shrieked as they flapped along the lanes in
the darkness, And that night they struck at a mouse--and missed him.

The next morning, the Owls--fast asleep in charge of the
Constitution--were roused by voices of featherless beings all round
them. They opened their eyes, under protest, and saw instruments of
destruction attacking the creepers. Now in one direction, and now in
another, those instruments let in on the summer-house the horrid light
of day. But the Owls were equal to the occasion. They ruffled their
feathers, and cried, “No surrender!” The featherless beings plied their
work cheerfully, and answered, “Reform!” The creepers were torn down
this way and that. The horrid daylight poured in brighter and brighter.
The Owls had barely time to pass a new resolution, namely, “That we do
stand by the Constitution,” when a ray of the outer sunlight flashed
into their eyes, and sent them flying headlong to the nearest shade.
There they sat winking, while the summer-house was cleared of the rank
growth that had choked it up, while the rotten wood-work was renewed,
while all the murky place was purified with air and light. And when the
world saw it, and said, “Now we shall do!” the Owls shut their eyes
in pious remembrance of the darkness, and answered, “My lords and
gentlemen, the Constitution is destroyed!”


CHAPTER THE SECOND.

THE GUESTS.

Who was responsible for the reform of the summer-house? The new tenant
at Windygates was responsible.

And who was the new tenant?

Come, and see.



In the spring of eighteen hundred and sixty-eight the summer-house had
been the dismal dwelling-place of a pair of owls. In the autumn of the
same year the summer-house was the lively gathering-place of a crowd
of ladies and gentlemen, assembled at a lawn party--the guests of the
tenant who had taken Windygates.

The scene--at the opening of the party--was as pleasant to look at as
light and beauty and movement could make it.

Inside the summer-house the butterfly-brightness of the women in their
summer dresses shone radiant out of the gloom shed round it by the
dreary modern clothing of the men. Outside the summer-house, seen
through three arched openings, the cool green prospect of a lawn led
away, in the distance, to flower-beds and shrubberies, and, farther
still, disclosed, through a break in the trees, a grand stone house
which closed the view, with a fountain in front of it playing in the
sun.

They were half of them laughing, they were all of them talking--the
comfortable hum of their voices was at its loudest; the cheery pealing
of the laughter was soaring to its highest notes--when one dominant
voice, rising clear and shrill above all the rest, called imperatively
for silence. The moment after, a young lady stepped into the vacant
space in front of the summer-house, and surveyed the throng of guests as
a general in command surveys a regiment under review.

She was young, she was pretty, she was plump, she was fair. She was not
the least embarrassed by her prominent position. She was dressed in the
height of the fashion. A hat, like a cheese-plate, was tilted over her
forehead. A balloon of light brown hair soared, fully inflated, from the
crown of her head. A cataract of beads poured over her bosom. A pair of
cock-chafers in enamel (frightfully like the living originals) hung at
her ears. Her scanty skirts shone splendid with the blue of heaven. Her
ankles twinkled in striped stockings. Her shoes were of the sort called
“Watteau.” And her heels were of the height at which men shudder, and
ask themselves (in contemplating an otherwise lovable woman), “Can this
charming person straighten her knees?”

The young lady thus presenting herself to the general view was Miss
Blanche Lundie--once the little rosy Blanche whom the Prologue has
introduced to the reader. Age, at the present time, eighteen. Position,
excellent. Money, certain. Temper, quick. Disposition, variable. In a
word, a child of the modern time--with the merits of the age we live in,
and the failings of the age we live in--and a substance of sincerity and
truth and feeling underlying it all.

“Now then, good people,” cried Miss Blanche, “silence, if you please! We
are going to choose sides at croquet. Business, business, business!”

Upon this, a second lady among the company assumed a position of
prominence, and answered the young person who had just spoken with a
look of mild reproof, and in a tone of benevolent protest.

The second lady was tall, and solid, and five-and-thirty. She presented
to the general observation a cruel aquiline nose, an obstinate straight
chin, magnificent dark hair and eyes, a serene splendor of fawn-colored
apparel, and a lazy grace of movement which was attractive at
first sight, but inexpressibly monotonous and wearisome on a longer
acquaintance. This was Lady Lundie the Second, now the widow (after four
months only of married life) of Sir Thomas Lundie, deceased. In other
words, the step-mother of Blanche, and the enviable person who had taken
the house and lands of Windygates.

“My dear,” said Lady Lundie, “words have their meanings--even on a young
lady’s lips. Do you call Croquet, ‘business?’”

“You don’t call it pleasure, surely?” said a gravely ironical voice in
the back-ground of the summer-house.

The ranks of the visitors parted before the last speaker, and disclosed
to view, in the midst of that modern assembly, a gentleman of the bygone
time.

The manner of this gentleman was distinguished by a pliant grace and
courtesy unknown to the present generation. The attire of this gentleman
was composed of a many-folded white cravat, a close-buttoned blue
dress-coat, and nankeen trousers with gaiters to match, ridiculous
to the present generation. The talk of this gentleman ran in an
easy flow--revealing an independent habit of mind, and exhibiting a
carefully-polished capacity for satirical retort--dreaded and disliked
by the present generation. Personally, he was little and wiry and
slim--with a bright white head, and sparkling black eyes, and a wry
twist of humor curling sharply at the corners of his lips. At his lower
extremities, he exhibited the deformity which is popularly known as “a
club-foot.” But he carried his lameness, as he carried his years, gayly.
He was socially celebrated for his ivory cane, with a snuff-box artfully
let into the knob at the top--and he was socially dreaded for a hatred
of modern institutions, which expressed itself in season and out of
season, and which always showed the same, fatal knack of hitting smartly
on the weakest place. Such was Sir Patrick Lundie; brother of the late
baronet, Sir Thomas; and inheritor, at Sir Thomas’s death, of the title
and estates.

Miss Blanche--taking no notice of her step-mother’s reproof, or of her
uncle’s commentary on it--pointed to a table on which croquet mallets
and balls were laid ready, and recalled the attention of the company to
the matter in hand.

“I head one side, ladies and gentlemen,” she resumed. “And Lady Lundie
heads the other. We choose our players turn and turn about. Mamma has
the advantage of me in years. So mamma chooses first.”

With a look at her step-daughter--which, being interpreted, meant, “I
would send you back to the nursery, miss, if I could!”--Lady Lundie
turned and ran her eye over her guests. She had evidently made up her
mind, beforehand, what player to pick out first.

“I choose Miss Silvester,” she said--with a special emphasis laid on the
name.

At that there was another parting among the crowd. To us (who know her),
it was Anne who now appeared. Strangers, who saw her for the first
time, saw a lady in the prime of her life--a lady plainly dressed in
unornamented white--who advanced slowly, and confronted the mistress of
the house.

A certain proportion--and not a small one--of the men at the lawn-party
had been brought there by friends who were privileged to introduce
them. The moment she appeared every one of those men suddenly became
interested in the lady who had been chosen first.

“That’s a very charming woman,” whispered one of the strangers at the
house to one of the friends of the house. “Who is she?”

The friend whispered back.

“Miss Lundie’s governess--that’s all.”

The moment during which the question was put and answered was also the
moment which brought Lady Lundie and Miss Silvester face to face in the
presence of the company.

The stranger at the house looked at the two women, and whispered again.

“Something wrong between the lady and the governess,” he said.

The friend looked also, and answered, in one emphatic word:

“Evidently!”

There are certain women whose influence over men is an unfathomable
mystery to observers of their own sex. The governess was one of those
women. She had inherited the charm, but not the beauty, of her unhappy
mother. Judge her by the standard set up in the illustrated gift-books
and the print-shop windows--and the sentence must have inevitably
followed. “She has not a single good feature in her face.”

There was nothing individually remarkable about Miss Silvester, seen in
a state of repose. She was of the average height. She was as well made
as most women. In hair and complexion she was neither light nor dark,
but provokingly neutral just between the two. Worse even than this,
there were positive defects in her face, which it was impossible to
deny. A nervous contraction at one corner of her mouth drew up the
lips out of the symmetrically right line, when, they moved. A nervous
uncertainty in the eye on the same side narrowly escaped presenting the
deformity of a “cast.” And yet, with these indisputable drawbacks, here
was one of those women--the formidable few--who have the hearts of men
and the peace of families at their mercy. She moved--and there was some
subtle charm, Sir, in the movement, that made you look back, and suspend
your conversation with your friend, and watch her silently while she
walked. She sat by you and talked to you--and behold, a sensitive
something passed into that little twist at the corner of the mouth, and
into that nervous uncertainty in the soft gray eye, which turned defect
into beauty--which enchained your senses--which made your nerves thrill
if she touched you by accident, and set your heart beating if you looked
at the same book with her, and felt her breath on your face. All this,
let it be well understood, only happened if you were a man.

If you saw her with the eyes of a woman, the results were of quite
another kind. In that case you merely turned to your nearest female
friend, and said, with unaffected pity for the other sex, “What _can_
the men see in her!”

The eyes of the lady of the house and the eyes of the governess met,
with marked distrust on either side. Few people could have failed to
see what the stranger and the friend had noticed alike--that there was
something smoldering under the surface here. Miss Silvester spoke first.

“Thank you, Lady Lundie,” she said. “I would rather not play.”

Lady Lundie assumed an extreme surprise which passed the limits of
good-breeding.

“Oh, indeed?” she rejoined, sharply. “Considering that we are all here
for the purpose of playing, that seems rather remarkable. Is any thing
wrong, Miss Silvester?”

A flush appeared on the delicate paleness of Miss Silvester’s face.
But she did her duty as a woman and a governess. She submitted, and so
preserved appearances, for that time.

“Nothing is the matter,” she answered. “I am not very well this morning.
But I will play if you wish it.”

“I do wish it,” answered Lady Lundie.

Miss Silvester turned aside toward one of the entrances into the
summer-house. She waited for events, looking out over the lawn, with a
visible inner disturbance, marked over the bosom by the rise and fall of
her white dress.

It was Blanche’s turn to select the next player.

In some preliminary uncertainty as to her choice she looked about among
the guests, and caught the eye of a gentleman in the front ranks. He
stood side by side with Sir Patrick--a striking representative of the
school that is among us--as Sir Patrick was a striking representative of
the school that has passed away.

The modern gentleman was young and florid, tall and strong. The parting
of his curly Saxon locks began in the center of his forehead, traveled
over the top of his head, and ended, rigidly-central, at the ruddy nape
of his neck. His features were as perfectly regular and as perfectly
unintelligent as human features can be. His expression preserved an
immovable composure wonderful to behold. The muscles of his brawny arms
showed through the sleeves of his light summer coat. He was deep in the
chest, thin in the flanks, firm on the legs--in two words a magnificent
human animal, wrought up to the highest pitch of physical development,
from head to foot. This was Mr. Geoffrey Delamayn--commonly called “the
honorable;” and meriting that distinction in more ways than one. He was
honorable, in the first place, as being the son (second son) of that
once-rising solicitor, who was now Lord Holchester. He was honorable,
in the second place, as having won the highest popular distinction which
the educational system of modern England can bestow--he had pulled the
stroke-oar in a University boat-race. Add to this, that nobody had ever
seen him read any thing but a newspaper, and that nobody had ever
known him to be backward in settling a bet--and the picture of this
distinguished young Englishman will be, for the present, complete.

Blanche’s eye naturally rested on him. Blanche’s voice naturally picked
him out as the first player on her side.

“I choose Mr. Delamayn,” she said.

As the name passed her lips the flush on Miss Silvester’s face died
away, and a deadly paleness took its place. She made a movement to leave
the summer-house--checked herself abruptly--and laid one hand on the
back of a rustic seat at her side. A gentleman behind her, looking at
the hand, saw it clench itself so suddenly and so fiercely that
the glove on it split. The gentleman made a mental memorandum, and
registered Miss Silvester in his private books as “the devil’s own
temper.”

Meanwhile Mr. Delamayn, by a strange coincidence, took exactly the same
course which Miss Silvester had taken before him. He, too, attempted to
withdraw from the coming game.

“Thanks very much,” he said. “Could you additionally honor me by
choosing somebody else? It’s not in my line.”

Fifty years ago such an answer as this, addressed to a lady, would have
been considered inexcusably impertinent. The social code of the present
time hailed it as something frankly amusing. The company laughed.
Blanche lost her temper.

“Can’t we interest you in any thing but severe muscular exertion,
Mr. Delamayn?” she asked, sharply. “Must you always be pulling in a
boat-race, or flying over a high jump? If you had a mind, you would want
to relax it. You have got muscles instead. Why not relax _them_?”

The shafts of Miss Lundie’s bitter wit glided off Mr. Geoffrey Delamayn
like water off a duck’s back.

“Just as you please,” he said, with stolid good-humor. “Don’t be
offended. I came here with ladies--and they wouldn’t let me smoke. I
miss my smoke. I thought I’d slip away a bit and have it. All right!
I’ll play.”

“Oh! smoke by all means!” retorted Blanche. “I shall choose somebody
else. I won’t have you!”

The honorable young gentleman looked unaffectedly relieved. The petulant
young lady turned her back on him, and surveyed the guests at the other
extremity of the summer-house.

“Who shall I choose?” she said to herself.

A dark young man--with a face burned gipsy-brown by the sun; with
something in his look and manner suggestive of a roving life, and
perhaps of a familiar acquaintance with the sea--advanced shyly, and
said, in a whisper:

“Choose me!”

Blanche’s face broke prettily into a charming smile. Judging from
appearances, the dark young man had a place in her estimation peculiarly
his own.

“You!” she said, coquettishly. “You are going to leave us in an hour’s
time!”

He ventured a step nearer. “I am coming back,” he pleaded, “the day
after to-morrow.”

“You play very badly!”

“I might improve--if you would teach me.”

“Might you? Then I will teach you!” She turned, bright and rosy, to her
step-mother. “I choose Mr. Arnold Brinkworth,” she said.

Here, again, there appeared to be something in a name unknown to
celebrity, which nevertheless produced its effect--not, this time, on
Miss Silvester, but on Sir Patrick. He looked at Mr. Brinkworth with a
sudden interest and curiosity. If the lady of the house had not claimed
his attention at the moment he would evidently have spoken to the dark
young man.

But it was Lady Lundie’s turn to choose a second player on her side.
Her brother-in-law was a person of some importance; and she had her
own motives for ingratiating herself with the head of the family. She
surprised the whole company by choosing Sir Patrick.

“Mamma!” cried Blanche. “What can you be thinking of? Sir Patrick won’t
play. Croquet wasn’t discovered in his time.”

Sir Patrick never allowed “his time” to be made the subject of
disparaging remarks by the younger generation without paying the
younger generation back in its own coin.

“In _my_ time, my dear,” he said to his niece, “people were expected to
bring some agreeable quality with them to social meetings of this sort.
In your time you have dispensed with all that. Here,” remarked the old
gentleman, taking up a croquet mallet from the table near him, “is
one of the qualifications for success in modern society. And here,” he
added, taking up a ball, “is another. Very good. Live and learn. I’ll
play! I’ll play!”

Lady Lundie (born impervious to all sense of irony) smiled graciously.

“I knew Sir Patrick would play,” she said, “to please me.”

Sir Patrick bowed with satirical politeness.

“Lady Lundie,” he answered, “you read me like a book.” To the
astonishment of all persons present under forty he emphasized those
words by laying his hand on his heart, and quoting poetry. “I may say
with Dryden,” added the gallant old gentleman:

     “‘Old as I am, for ladies’ love unfit,
     The power of beauty I remember yet.’”

Lady Lundie looked unaffectedly shocked. Mr. Delamayn went a step
farther. He interfered on the spot--with the air of a man who feels
himself imperatively called upon to perform a public duty.

“Dryden never said that,” he remarked, “I’ll answer for it.”

Sir Patrick wheeled round with the help of his ivory cane, and looked
Mr. Delamayn hard in the face.

“Do you know Dryden, Sir, better than I do?” he asked.

The Honorable Geoffrey answered, modestly, “I should say I did. I have
rowed three races with him, and we trained together.”

Sir Patrick looked round him with a sour smile of triumph.

“Then let me tell you, Sir,” he said, “that you trained with a man who
died nearly two hundred years ago.”

Mr. Delamayn appealed, in genuine bewilderment, to the company
generally:

“What does this old gentleman mean?” he asked. “I am speaking of Tom
Dryden, of Corpus. Every body in the University knows _him._”

“I am speaking,” echoed Sir Patrick, “of John Dryden the Poet.
Apparently, every body in the University does _not_ know _him!”_

Mr. Delamayn answered, with a cordial earnestness very pleasant to see:

“Give you my word of honor, I never heard of him before in my life!
Don’t be angry, Sir. _I’m_ not offended with _you._” He smiled, and took
out his brier-wood pipe. “Got a light?” he asked, in the friendliest
possible manner.

Sir Patrick answered, with a total absence of cordiality:

“I don’t smoke, Sir.”

Mr. Delamayn looked at him, without taking the slightest offense:

“You don’t smoke!” he repeated. “I wonder how you get through your spare
time?”

Sir Patrick closed the conversation:

“Sir,” he said, with a low bow, “you _may_ wonder.”

While this little skirmish was proceeding Lady Lundie and her
step-daughter had organized the game; and the company, players and
spectators, were beginning to move toward the lawn. Sir Patrick stopped
his niece on her way out, with the dark young man in close attendance on
her.

“Leave Mr. Brinkworth with me,” he said. “I want to speak to him.”

Blanche issued her orders immediately. Mr. Brinkworth was sentenced to
stay with Sir Patrick until she wanted him for the game. Mr. Brinkworth
wondered, and obeyed.

During the exercise of this act of authority a circumstance occurred
at the other end of the summer-house. Taking advantage of the confusion
caused by the general movement to the lawn, Miss Silvester suddenly
placed herself close to Mr. Delamayn.

“In ten minutes,” she whispered, “the summer-house will be empty. Meet
me here.”

The Honorable Geoffrey started, and looked furtively at the visitors
about him.

“Do you think it’s safe?” he whispered back.

The governess’s sensitive lips trembled, with fear or with anger, it was
hard to say which.

“I insist on it!” she answered, and left him.

Mr. Delamayn knitted his handsome eyebrows as he looked after her, and
then left the summer-house in his turn. The rose-garden at the back of
the building was solitary for the moment. He took out his pipe and hid
himself among the roses. The smoke came from his mouth in hot and hasty
puffs. He was usually the gentlest of masters--to his pipe. When he
hurried that confidential servant, it was a sure sign of disturbance in
the inner man.


CHAPTER THE THIRD.

THE DISCOVERIES.

BUT two persons were now left in the summer-house--Arnold Brinkworth and
Sir Patrick Lundie.

“Mr. Brinkworth,” said the old gentleman, “I have had no opportunity of
speaking to you before this; and (as I hear that you are to leave us,
to-day) I may find no opportunity at a later time. I want to introduce
myself. Your father was one of my dearest friends--let me make a friend
of your father’s son.”

He held out his hands, and mentioned his name.

Arnold recognized it directly. “Oh, Sir Patrick!” he said, warmly, “if
my poor father had only taken your advice--”

“He would have thought twice before he gambled away his fortune on the
turf; and he might have been alive here among us, instead of dying an
exile in a foreign land,” said Sir Patrick, finishing the sentence which
the other had begun. “No more of that! Let’s talk of something else.
Lady Lundie wrote to me about you the other day. She told me your aunt
was dead, and had left you heir to her property in Scotland. Is that
true?--It is?--I congratulate you with all my heart. Why are you
visiting here, instead of looking after your house and lands? Oh! it’s
only three-and-twenty miles from this; and you’re going to look after
it to-day, by the next train? Quite right. And--what? what?--coming back
again the day after to-morrow? Why should you come back? Some special
attraction here, I suppose? I hope it’s the right sort of attraction.
You’re very young--you’re exposed to all sorts of temptations. Have you
got a solid foundation of good sense at the bottom of you? It is not
inherited from your poor father, if you have. You must have been a mere
boy when he ruined his children’s prospects. How have you lived from
that time to this? What were you doing when your aunt’s will made an
idle man of you for life?”

The question was a searching one. Arnold answered it, without the
slightest hesitation; speaking with an unaffected modesty and simplicity
which at once won Sir Patrick’s heart.

“I was a boy at Eton, Sir,” he said, “when my father’s losses ruined
him. I had to leave school, and get my own living; and I have got it,
in a roughish way, from that time to this. In plain English, I have
followed the sea--in the merchant-service.”

“In plainer English still, you met adversity like a brave lad, and you
have fairly earned the good luck that has fallen to you,” rejoined Sir
Patrick. “Give me your hand--I have taken a liking to you. You’re not
like the other young fellows of the present time. I shall call you
‘Arnold.’ You mus’n’t return the compliment and call me ‘Patrick,’
mind--I’m too old to be treated in that way. Well, and how do you get on
here? What sort of a woman is my sister-in-law? and what sort of a house
is this?”

Arnold burst out laughing.

“Those are extraordinary questions for you to put to me,” he said. “You
talk, Sir, as if you were a stranger here!”

Sir Patrick touched a spring in the knob of his ivory cane. A little
gold lid flew up, and disclosed the snuff-box hidden inside. He took a
pinch, and chuckled satirically over some passing thought, which he did
not think it necessary to communicate to his young friend.

“I talk as if I was a stranger here, do I?” he resumed. “That’s exactly
what I am. Lady Lundie and I correspond on excellent terms; but we run
in different grooves, and we see each other as seldom as possible. My
story,” continued the pleasant old man, with a charming frankness which
leveled all differences of age and rank between Arnold and himself,
“is not entirely unlike yours; though I _am_ old enough to be your
grandfather. I was getting my living, in my way (as a crusty old Scotch
lawyer), when my brother married again. His death, without leaving a son
by either of his wives, gave me a lift in the world, like you. Here I
am (to my own sincere regret) the present baronet. Yes, to my sincere
regret! All sorts of responsibilities which I never bargained for are
thrust on my shoulders. I am the head of the family; I am my niece’s
guardian; I am compelled to appear at this lawn-party--and (between
ourselves) I am as completely out of my element as a man can be. Not a
single familiar face meets _me_ among all these fine people. Do you know
any body here?”

“I have one friend at Windygates,” said Arnold. “He came here this
morning, like you. Geoffrey Delamayn.”

As he made the reply, Miss Silvester appeared at the entrance to the
summer-house. A shadow of annoyance passed over her face when she saw
that the place was occupied. She vanished, unnoticed, and glided back to
the game.

Sir Patrick looked at the son of his old friend, with every appearance
of being disappointed in the young man for the first time.

“Your choice of a friend rather surprises me,” he said.

Arnold artlessly accepted the words as an appeal to him for information.

“I beg your pardon, Sir--there’s nothing surprising in it,” he returned.
“We were school-fellows at Eton, in the old times. And I have met
Geoffrey since, when he was yachting, and when I was with my ship.
Geoffrey saved my life, Sir Patrick,” he added, his voice rising, and
his eyes brightening with honest admiration of his friend. “But for
him, I should have been drowned in a boat-accident. Isn’t _that_ a good
reason for his being a friend of mine?”

“It depends entirely on the value you set on your life,” said Sir
Patrick.

“The value I set on my life?” repeated Arnold. “I set a high value on
it, of course!”

“In that case, Mr. Delamayn has laid you under an obligation.”

“Which I can never repay!”

“Which you will repay one of these days, with interest--if I know any
thing of human nature,” answered Sir Patrick.

He said the words with the emphasis of strong conviction. They were
barely spoken when Mr. Delamayn appeared (exactly as Miss Silvester
had appeared) at the entrance to the summer-house. He, too, vanished,
unnoticed--like Miss Silvester again. But there the parallel stopped.
The Honorable Geoffrey’s expression, on discovering the place to be
occupied, was, unmistakably an expression of relief.

Arnold drew the right inference, this time, from Sir Patrick’s language
and Sir Patrick’s tones. He eagerly took up the defense of his friend.

“You said that rather bitterly, Sir,” he remarked. “What has Geoffrey
done to offend you?”

“He presumes to exist--that’s what he has done,” retorted Sir Patrick.
“Don’t stare! I am speaking generally. Your friend is the model young
Briton of the present time. I don’t like the model young Briton. I
don’t see the sense of crowing over him as a superb national production,
because he is big and strong, and drinks beer with impunity, and takes a
cold shower bath all the year round. There is far too much glorification
in England, just now, of the mere physical qualities which an Englishman
shares with the savage and the brute. And the ill results are beginning
to show themselves already! We are readier than we ever were to practice
all that is rough in our national customs, and to excuse all that is
violent and brutish in our national acts. Read the popular books--attend
the popular amusements; and you will find at the bottom of them all a
lessening regard for the gentler graces of civilized life, and a growing
admiration for the virtues of the aboriginal Britons!”

Arnold listened in blank amazement. He had been the innocent means
of relieving Sir Patrick’s mind of an accumulation of social protest,
unprovided with an issue for some time past. “How hot you are over it,
Sir!” he exclaimed, in irrepressible astonishment.

Sir Patrick instantly recovered himself. The genuine wonder expressed in
the young man’s face was irresistible.

“Almost as hot,” he said, “as if I was cheering at a boat-race, or
wrangling over a betting-book--eh? Ah, we were so easily heated when
I was a young man! Let’s change the subject. I know nothing to the
prejudice of your friend, Mr. Delamayn. It’s the cant of the day,” cried
Sir Patrick, relapsing again, “to take these physically-wholesome men
for granted as being morally-wholesome men into the bargain. Time will
show whether the cant of the day is right.--So you are actually coming
back to Lady Lundie’s after a mere flying visit to your own property? I
repeat, that is a most extraordinary proceeding on the part of a landed
gentleman like you. What’s the attraction here--eh?”

Before Arnold could reply Blanche called to him from the lawn. His color
rose, and he turned eagerly to go out. Sir Patrick nodded his head with
the air of a man who had been answered to his own entire satisfaction.
“Oh!” he said, “_that’s_ the attraction, is it?”

Arnold’s life at sea had left him singularly ignorant of the ways of the
world on shore. Instead of taking the joke, he looked confused. A deeper
tinge of color reddened his dark cheeks. “I didn’t say so,” he answered,
a little irritably.

Sir Patrick lifted two of his white, wrinkled old fingers, and
good-humoredly patted the young sailor on the cheek.

“Yes you did,” he said. “In red letters.”

The little gold lid in the knob of the ivory cane flew up, and the old
gentleman rewarded himself for that neat retort with a pinch of snuff.
At the same moment Blanche made her appearance on the scene.

“Mr. Brinkworth,” she said, “I shall want you directly. Uncle, it’s your
turn to play.”

“Bless my soul!” cried Sir Patrick, “I forgot the game.” He looked about
him, and saw his mallet and ball left waiting on the table. “Where are
the modern substitutes for conversation? Oh, here they are!” He bowled
the ball out before him on to the lawn, and tucked the mallet, as if it
was an umbrella, under his arm. “Who was the first mistaken person,” he
said to himself, as he briskly hobbled out, “who discovered that human
life was a serious thing? Here am I, with one foot in the grave; and the
most serious question before me at the present moment is, Shall I get
through the Hoops?”

Arnold and Blanche were left together.

Among the personal privileges which Nature has accorded to women, there
are surely none more enviable than their privilege of always looking
their best when they look at the man they love. When Blanche’s eyes
turned on Arnold after her uncle had gone out, not even the hideous
fashionable disfigurements of the inflated “chignon” and the tilted hat
could destroy the triple charm of youth, beauty, and tenderness beaming
in her face. Arnold looked at her--and remembered, as he had never
remembered yet, that he was going by the next train, and that he was
leaving her in the society of more than one admiring man of his own age.
The experience of a whole fortnight passed under the same roof with her
had proved Blanche to be the most charming girl in existence. It was
possible that she might not be mortally offended with him if he told her
so. He determined that he _would_ tell her so at that auspicious moment.

But who shall presume to measure the abyss that lies between the
Intention and the Execution? Arnold’s resolution to speak was as firmly
settled as a resolution could be. And what came of it? Alas for human
infirmity! Nothing came of it but silence.

“You don’t look quite at your ease, Mr. Brinkworth,” said Blanche. “What
has Sir Patrick been saying to you? My uncle sharpens his wit on every
body. He has been sharpening it on _you?”_

Arnold began to see his way. At an immeasurable distance--but still he
saw it.

“Sir Patrick is a terrible old man,” he answered. “Just before you
came in he discovered one of my secrets by only looking in my face.” He
paused, rallied his courage, pushed on at all hazards, and came headlong
to the point. “I wonder,” he asked, bluntly, “whether you take after
your uncle?”

Blanche instantly understood him. With time at her disposal, she would
have taken him lightly in hand, and led him, by fine gradations, to the
object in view. But in two minutes or less it would be Arnold’s turn to
play. “He is going to make me an offer,” thought Blanche; “and he has
about a minute to do it in. He _shall_ do it!”

“What!” she exclaimed, “do you think the gift of discovery runs in the
family?”

Arnold made a plunge.

“I wish it did!” he said.

Blanche looked the picture of astonishment.

“Why?” she asked.

“If you could see in my face what Sir Patrick saw--”

He had only to finish the sentence, and the thing was done. But the
tender passion perversely delights in raising obstacles to itself. A
sudden timidity seized on Arnold exactly at the wrong moment. He stopped
short, in the most awkward manner possible.

Blanche heard from the lawn the blow of the mallet on the ball, and the
laughter of the company at some blunder of Sir Patrick’s. The precious
seconds were slipping away. She could have boxed Arnold on both ears for
being so unreasonably afraid of her.

“Well,” she said, impatiently, “if I did look in your face, what should
I see?”

Arnold made another plunge. He answered: “You would see that I want a
little encouragement.”

“From _me?_”

“Yes--if you please.”

Blanche looked back over her shoulder. The summer-house stood on an
eminence, approached by steps. The players on the lawn beneath were
audible, but not visible. Any one of them might appear, unexpectedly, at
a moment’s notice. Blanche listened. There was no sound of approaching
footsteps--there was a general hush, and then another bang of the mallet
on the ball and then a clapping of hands. Sir Patrick was a privileged
person. He had been allowed, in all probability, to try again; and he
was succeeding at the second effort. This implied a reprieve of some
seconds. Blanche looked back again at Arnold.

“Consider yourself encouraged,” she whispered; and instantly added, with
the ineradicable female instinct of self-defense, “within limits!”

Arnold made a last plunge--straight to the bottom, this time.

“Consider yourself loved,” he burst out, “without any limits at all.”

It was all over--the words were spoken--he had got her by the hand.
Again the perversity of the tender passion showed itself more strongly
than ever. The confession which Blanche had been longing to hear, had
barely escaped her lover’s lips before Blanche protested against it! She
struggled to release her hand. She formally appealed to Arnold to let
her go.

Arnold only held her the tighter.

“Do try to like me a little!” he pleaded. “I am so fond of _you!_”

Who was to resist such wooing as this?--when you were privately fond of
him yourself, remember, and when you were certain to be interrupted in
another moment! Blanche left off struggling, and looked up at her young
sailor with a smile.

“Did you learn this method of making love in the merchant-service?” she
inquired, saucily.

Arnold persisted in contemplating his prospects from the serious point
of view.

“I’ll go back to the merchant-service,” he said, “if I have made you
angry with me.”

Blanche administered another dose of encouragement.

“Anger, Mr. Brinkworth, is one of the bad passions,” she answered,
demurely. “A young lady who has been properly brought up has no bad
passions.”

There was a sudden cry from the players on the lawn--a cry for “Mr.
Brinkworth.” Blanche tried to push him out. Arnold was immovable.

“Say something to encourage me before I go,” he pleaded. “One word will
do. Say, Yes.”

Blanche shook her head. Now she had got him, the temptation to tease him
was irresistible.

“Quite impossible!” she rejoined. “If you want any more encouragement,
you must speak to my uncle.”

“I’ll speak to him,” returned Arnold, “before I leave the house.”

There was another cry for “Mr. Brinkworth.” Blanche made another effort
to push him out.

“Go!” she said. “And mind you get through the hoop!”

She had both hands on his shoulders--her face was close to his--she was
simply irresistible. Arnold caught her round the waist and kissed her.
Needless to tell him to get through the hoop. He had surely got through
it already! Blanche was speechless. Arnold’s last effort in the art of
courtship had taken away her breath. Before she could recover herself a
sound of approaching footsteps became plainly audible. Arnold gave her a
last squeeze, and ran out.

She sank on the nearest chair, and closed her eyes in a flutter of
delicious confusion.

The footsteps ascending to the summer-house came nearer. Blanche opened
her eyes, and saw Anne Silvester, standing alone, looking at her. She
sprang to her feet, and threw her arms impulsively round Anne’s neck.

“You don’t know what has happened,” she whispered. “Wish me joy,
darling. He has said the words. He is mine for life!”

All the sisterly love and sisterly confidence of many years was
expressed in that embrace, and in the tone in which the words were
spoken. The hearts of the mothers, in the past time, could hardly
have been closer to each other--as it seemed--than the hearts of the
daughters were now. And yet, if Blanche had looked up in Anne’s face at
that moment, she must have seen that Anne’s mind was far away from her
little love-story.

“You know who it is?” she went on, after waiting for a reply.

“Mr. Brinkworth?”

“Of course! Who else should it be?”

“And you are really happy, my love?”

“Happy?” repeated Blanche “Mind! this is strictly between ourselves. I
am ready to jump out of my skin for joy. I love him! I love him! I love
him!” she cried, with a childish pleasure in repeating the words. They
were echoed by a heavy sigh. Blanche instantly looked up into Anne’s
face. “What’s the matter?” she asked, with a sudden change of voice and
manner.

“Nothing.”

Blanche’s observation saw too plainly to be blinded in that way.

“There _is_ something the matter,” she said. “Is it money?” she added,
after a moment’s consideration. “Bills to pay? I have got plenty of
money, Anne. I’ll lend you what you like.”

“No, no, my dear!”

Blanche drew back, a little hurt. Anne was keeping her at a distance for
the first time in Blanche’s experience of her.

“I tell you all my secrets,” she said. “Why are _you_ keeping a secret
from _me?_ Do you know that you have been looking anxious and out of
spirits for some time past? Perhaps you don’t like Mr. Brinkworth? No?
you _do_ like him? Is it my marrying, then? I believe it is! You fancy
we shall be parted, you goose? As if I could do without you! Of course,
when I am married to Arnold, you will come and live with us. That’s
quite understood between us--isn’t it?”

Anne drew herself suddenly, almost roughly, away from Blanche, and
pointed out to the steps.

“There is somebody coming,” she said. “Look!”

The person coming was Arnold. It was Blanche’s turn to play, and he had
volunteered to fetch her.

Blanche’s attention--easily enough distracted on other
occasions--remained steadily fixed on Anne.

“You are not yourself,” she said, “and I must know the reason of it. I
will wait till to-night; and then you will tell me, when you come into
my room. Don’t look like that! You _shall_ tell me. And there’s a kiss
for you in the mean time!”

She joined Arnold, and recovered her gayety the moment she looked at
him.

“Well? Have you got through the hoops?”

“Never mind the hoops. I have broken the ice with Sir Patrick.”

“What! before all the company!”

“Of course not! I have made an appointment to speak to him here.”

They went laughing down the steps, and joined the game.

Left alone, Anne Silvester walked slowly to the inner and darker part of
the summer-house. A glass, in a carved wooden frame, was fixed
against one of the side walls. She stopped and looked into it--looked,
shuddering, at the reflection of herself.

“Is the time coming,” she said, “when even Blanche will see what I am in
my face?”

She turned aside from the glass. With a sudden cry of despair she flung
up her arms and laid them heavily against the wall, and rested her head
on them with her back to the light. At the same moment a man’s figure
appeared--standing dark in the flood of sunshine at the entrance to the
summer-house. The man was Geoffrey Delamayn.


CHAPTER THE FOURTH.

THE TWO.

He advanced a few steps, and stopped. Absorbed in herself, Anne failed
to hear him. She never moved.

“I have come, as you made a point of it,” he said, sullenly. “But, mind
you, it isn’t safe.”

At the sound of his voice, Anne turned toward him. A change of
expression appeared in her face, as she slowly advanced from the back
of the summer-house, which revealed a likeness to her moth er, not
perceivable at other times. As the mother had looked, in by-gone days,
at the man who had disowned her, so the daughter looked at Geoffrey
Delamayn--with the same terrible composure, and the same terrible
contempt.

“Well?” he asked. “What have you got to say to me?”

“Mr. Delamayn,” she answered, “you are one of the fortunate people of
this world. You are a nobleman’s son. You are a handsome man. You are
popular at your college. You are free of the best houses in England.
Are you something besides all this? Are you a coward and a scoundrel as
well?”

He started--opened his lips to speak--checked himself--and made an
uneasy attempt to laugh it off. “Come!” he said, “keep your temper.”

The suppressed passion in her began to force its way to the surface.

“Keep my temper?” she repeated. “Do _you_ of all men expect me to
control myself? What a memory yours must be! Have you forgotten the time
when I was fool enough to think you were fond of me? and mad enough to
believe you could keep a promise?”

He persisted in trying to laugh it off. “Mad is a strongish word to use,
Miss Silvester!”

“Mad is the right word! I look back at my own infatuation--and I can’t
account for it; I can’t understand myself. What was there in _you_,”
 she asked, with an outbreak of contemptuous surprise, “to attract such a
woman as I am?”

His inexhaustible good-nature was proof even against this. He put his
hands in his pockets, and said, “I’m sure I don’t know.”

She turned away from him. The frank brutality of the answer had not
offended her. It forced her, cruelly forced her, to remember that she
had nobody but herself to blame for the position in which she stood at
that moment. She was unwilling to let him see how the remembrance
hurt her--that was all. A sad, sad story; but it must be told. In her
mother’s time she had been the sweetest, the most lovable of children.
In later days, under the care of her mother’s friend, her girlhood
had passed so harmlessly and so happily--it seemed as if the sleeping
passions might sleep forever! She had lived on to the prime of her
womanhood--and then, when the treasure of her life was at its richest,
in one fatal moment she had flung it away on the man in whose presence
she now stood.



Was she without excuse? No: not utterly without excuse.

She had seen him under other aspects than the aspect which he presented
now. She had seen him, the hero of the river-race, the first and
foremost man in a trial of strength and skill which had roused the
enthusiasm of all England. She had seen him, the central object of the
interest of a nation; the idol of the popular worship and the popular
applause. _His_ were the arms whose muscle was celebrated in the
newspapers. _He_ was first among the heroes hailed by ten thousand
roaring throats as the pride and flower of England. A woman, in an
atmosphere of red-hot enthusiasm, witnesses the apotheosis of Physical
Strength. Is it reasonable--is it just--to expect her to ask herself,
in cold blood, What (morally and intellectually) is all this worth?--and
that, when the man who is the object of the apotheosis, notices her, is
presented to her, finds her to his taste, and singles her out from the
rest? No. While humanity is humanity, the woman is not utterly without
excuse.

Has she escaped, without suffering for it?

Look at her as she stands there, tortured by the knowledge of her own
secret--the hideous secret which she is hiding from the innocent girl,
whom she loves with a sister’s love. Look at her, bowed down under a
humiliation which is unutterable in words. She has seen him below the
surface--now, when it is too late. She rates him at his true value--now,
when her reputation is at his mercy. Ask her the question: What was
there to love in a man who can speak to you as that man has spoken,
who can treat you as that man is treating you now? you so clever, so
cultivated, so refined--what, in Heaven’s name, could _you_ see in him?
Ask her that, and she will have no answer to give. She will not even
remind you that he was once your model of manly beauty, too--that you
waved your handkerchief till you could wave it no longer, when he took
his seat, with the others, in the boat--that your heart was like to jump
out of your bosom, on that later occasion when he leaped the last
hurdle at the foot-race, and won it by a head. In the bitterness of her
remorse, she will not even seek for _that_ excuse for herself. Is there
no atoning suffering to be seen here? Do your sympathies shrink from
such a character as this? Follow her, good friends of virtue, on the
pilgrimage that leads, by steep and thorny ways, to the purer atmosphere
and the nobler life. Your fellow-creature, who has sinned and has
repented--you have the authority of the Divine Teacher for it--is
your fellow-creature, purified and ennobled. A joy among the angels of
heaven--oh, my brothers and sisters of the earth, have I not laid my
hand on a fit companion for You?



There was a moment of silence in the summer-house. The cheerful tumult
of the lawn-party was pleasantly audible from the distance. Outside, the
hum of voices, the laughter of girls, the thump of the croquet-mallet
against the ball. Inside, nothing but a woman forcing back the bitter
tears of sorrow and shame--and a man who was tired of her.

She roused herself. She was her mother’s daughter; and she had a
spark of her mother’s spirit. Her life depended on the issue of that
interview. It was useless--without father or brother to take her
part--to lose the last chance of appealing to him. She dashed away
the tears--time enough to cry, is time easily found in a woman’s
existence--she dashed away the tears, and spoke to him again, more
gently than she had spoken yet.

“You have been three weeks, Geoffrey, at your brother Julius’s place,
not ten miles from here; and you have never once ridden over to see me.
You would not have come to-day, if I had not written to you to insist on
it. Is that the treatment I have deserved?”

She paused. There was no answer.

“Do you hear me?” she asked, advancing and speaking in louder tones.

He was still silent. It was not in human endurance to bear his contempt.
The warning of a coming outbreak began to show itself in her face. He
met it, beforehand, with an impenetrable front. Feeling nervous about
the interview, while he was waiting in the rose-garden--now that he
stood committed to it, he was in full possession of himself. He
was composed enough to remember that he had not put his pipe in its
case--composed enough to set that little matter right before other
matters went any farther. He took the case out of one pocket, and the
pipe out of another.

“Go on,” he said, quietly. “I hear you.”

She struck the pipe out of his hand at a blow. If she had had the
strength she would have struck him down with it on the floor of the
summer-house.

“How dare you use me in this way?” she burst out, vehemently. “Your
conduct is infamous. Defend it if you can!”

He made no attempt to defend it. He looked, with an expression of
genuine anxiety, at the fallen pipe. It was beautifully colored--it had
cost him ten shillings. “I’ll pick up my pipe first,” he said. His face
brightened pleasantly--he looked handsomer than ever--as he examined the
precious object, and put it back in the case. “All right,” he said to
himself. “She hasn’t broken it.” His attitude as he looked at her again,
was the perfection of easy grace--the grace that attends on cultivated
strength in a state of repose. “I put it to your own common-sense,” he
said, in the most reasonable manner, “what’s the good of bullying me?
You don’t want them to hear you, out on the lawn there--do you? You
women are all alike. There’s no beating a little prudence into your
heads, try how one may.”

There he waited, expecting her to speak. She waited, on her side, and
forced him to go on.

“Look here,” he said, “there’s no need to quarrel, you know. I don’t
want to break my promise; but what can I do? I’m not the eldest son.
I’m dependent on my father for every farthing I have; and I’m on bad
terms with him already. Can’t you see it yourself? You’re a lady, and
all that, I know. But you’re only a governess. It’s your interest as
well as mine to wait till my father has provided for me. Here it is in a
nut-shell: if I marry you now, I’m a ruined man.”

The answer came, this time.

“You villain if you _don’t_ marry me, I am a ruined woman!”

“What do you mean?”

“You know what I mean. Don’t look at me in that way.”

“How do you expect me to look at a woman who calls me a villain to my
face?”

She suddenly changed her tone. The savage element in humanity--let the
modern optimists who doubt its existence look at any uncultivated man
(no matter how muscular), woman (no matter how beautiful), or child (no
matter how young)--began to show itself furtively in his eyes, to utter
itself furtively in his voice. Was he to blame for the manner in which
he looked at her and spoke to her? Not he! What had there been in the
training of _his_ life (at school or at college) to soften and subdue
the savage element in him? About as much as there had been in the
training of his ancestors (without the school or the college) five
hundred years since.

It was plain that one of them must give way. The woman had the most at
stake--and the woman set the example of submission.

“Don’t be hard on me,” she pleaded. “I don’t mean to be hard on _you._
My temper gets the better of me. You know my temper. I am sorry I forgot
myself. Geoffrey, my whole future is in your hands. Will you do me
justice?”

She came nearer, and laid her hand persuasively on his arm.

“Haven’t you a word to say to me? No answer? Not even a look?” She
waited a moment more. A marked change came over her. She turned slowly
to leave the summer-house. “I am sorry to have troubled you, Mr.
Delamayn. I won’t detain you any longer.”

He looked at her. There was a tone in her voice that he had never heard
before. There was a light in her eyes that he had never seen in them
before. Suddenly and fiercely he reached out his hand, and stopped her.

“Where are you going?” he asked.

She answered, looking him straight in the face, “Where many a miserable
woman has gone before me. Out of the world.”

He drew her nearer to him, and eyed her closely. Even _his_ intelligence
discovered that he had brought her to bay, and that she really meant it!

“Do you mean you will destroy yourself?” he said.

“Yes. I mean I will destroy myself.”

He dropped her arm. “By Jupiter, she _does_ mean it!”

With that conviction in him, he pushed one of the chairs in the
summer-house to her with his foot, and signed to her to take it. “Sit
down!” he said, roughly. She had frightened him--and fear comes seldom
to men of his type. They feel it, when it does come, with an angry
distrust; they grow loud and brutal, in instinctive protest against it.
“Sit down!” he repeated. She obeyed him. “Haven’t you got a word to say
to me?” he asked, with an oath. No! there she sat, immovable, reckless
how it ended--as only women can be, when women’s minds are made up.
He took a turn in the summer-house and came back, and struck his hand
angrily on the rail of her chair. “What do you want?”

“You know what I want.”

He took another turn. There was nothing for it but to give way on
his side, or run the risk of something happening which might cause an
awkward scandal, and come to his father’s ears.

“Look here, Anne,” he began, abruptly. “I have got something to
propose.”

She looked up at him.

“What do you say to a private marriage?”

Without asking a single question, without making objections, she
answered him, speaking as bluntly as he had spoken himself:

“I consent to a private marriage.”

He began to temporize directly.

“I own I don’t see how it’s to be managed--”

She stopped him there.

“I do!”

“What!” he cried out, suspiciously. “You have thought of it yourself,
have you?”

“Yes.”

“And planned for it?”

“And planned for it!”

“Why didn’t you tell me so before?”

She answered haughtily; insisting on the respect which is due to
women--the respect which was doubly due from _him,_ in her position.

“Because _you_ owed it to _me,_ Sir, to speak first.”

“Very well. I’ve spoken first. Will you wait a little?”

“Not a day!”

The tone was positive. There was no mistaking it. Her mind was made up.

“Where’s the hurry?”

“Have you eyes?” she asked, vehemently. “Have you ears? Do you see how
Lady Lundie looks at me? Do you hear how Lady Lundie speaks to me? I am
suspected by that woman. My shameful dismissal from this house may be
a question of a few hours.” Her head sunk on her bosom; she wrung her
clasped hands as they rested on her lap. “And, oh, Blanche!” she
moaned to herself, the tears gathering again, and falling, this time,
unchecked. “Blanche, who looks up to me! Blanche, who loves me! Blanche,
who told me, in this very place, that I was to live with her when she
was married!” She started up from the chair; the tears dried suddenly;
the hard despair settled again, wan and white, on her face. “Let me
go! What is death, compared to such a life as is waiting for _me?_” She
looked him over, in one disdainful glance from head to foot; her voice
rose to its loudest and firmest tones. “Why, even _you_; would have the
courage to die if you were in my place!”

Geoffrey glanced round toward the lawn.

“Hush!” he said. “They will hear you!”

“Let them hear me! When _I_ am past hearing _them_, what does it
matter?”

He put her back by main force on the chair. In another moment they must
have heard her, through all the noise and laughter of the game.

“Say what you want,” he resumed, “and I’ll do it. Only be reasonable. I
can’t marry you to-day.”

“You can!”

“What nonsense you talk! The house and grounds are swarming with
company. It can’t be!”

“It can! I have been thinking about it ever since we came to this house.
I have got something to propose to you. Will you hear it, or not?”

“Speak lower!”

“Will you hear it, or not?”

“There’s somebody coming!”

“Will you hear it, or not?”

“The devil take your obstinacy! Yes!”

The answer had been wrung from him. Still, it was the answer she
wanted--it opened the door to hope. The instant he had consented to hear
her her mind awakened to the serious necessity of averting discovery by
any third person who might stray idly into the summer-house. She held
up her hand for silence, and listened to what was going forward on the
lawn.

The dull thump of the croquet-mallet against the ball was no longer to
be heard. The game had stopped.

In a moment more she heard her own name called. An interval of another
instant passed, and a familiar voice said, “I know where she is. I’ll
fetch her.”

She turned to Geoffrey, and pointed to the back of the summer-house.

“It’s my turn to play,” she said. “And Blanche is coming here to look
for me. Wait there, and I’ll stop her on the steps.”

She went out at once. It was a critical moment. Discovery, which meant
moral-ruin to the woman, meant money-ruin to the man. Geoffrey had not
exaggerated his position with his father. Lord Holchester had twice paid
his debts, and had declined to see him since. One more outrage on his
father’s rigid sense of propriety, and he would be left out of the will
as well as kept out of the house. He looked for a means of retreat,
in case there was no escaping unperceived by the front entrance.
A door--intended for the use of servants, when picnics and gipsy
tea-parties were given in the summer-house--had been made in the back
wall. It opened outward, and it was locked. With his strength it was
easy to remove that obstacle. He put his shoulder to the door. At the
moment when he burst it open he felt a hand on his arm. Anne was behind
him, alone.

“You may want it before long,” she said, observing the open door,
without expressing any surprise, “You don’t want it now. Another person
will play for me--I have told Blanche I am not well. Sit down. I have
secured a respite of five minutes, and I must make the most of it. In
that time, or less, Lady Lundie’s suspicions will bring her here--to see
how I am. For the present, shut the door.”

She seated herself, and pointed to a second chair. He took it--with his
eye on the closed door.

“Come to the point!” he said, impatiently. “What is it?”

“You can marry me privately to-day,” she answered. “Lis ten--and I will
tell you how!”


CHAPTER THE FIFTH.

THE PLAN.

SHE took his hand, and began with all the art of persuasion that she
possessed.

“One question, Geoffrey, before I say what I want to say. Lady Lundie
has invited you to stay at Windygates. Do you accept her invitation? or
do you go back to your brother’s in the evening?”

“I can’t go back in the evening--they’ve put a visitor into my room. I’m
obliged to stay here. My brother has done it on purpose. Julius helps me
when I’m hard up--and bullies me afterward. He has sent me here, on
duty for the family. Somebody must be civil to Lady Lundie--and I’m the
sacrifice.”

She took him up at his last word. “Don’t make the sacrifice,” she said.
“Apologize to Lady Lundie, and say you are obliged to go back.”

“Why?”

“Because we must both leave this place to-day.”

There was a double objection to that. If he left Lady Lundie’s, he would
fail to establish a future pecuniary claim on his brother’s indulgence.
And if he left with Anne, the eyes of the world would see them, and the
whispers of the world might come to his father’s ears.

“If we go away together,” he said, “good-by to my prospects, and yours
too.”

“I don’t mean that we shall leave together,” she explained. “We will
leave separately--and I will go first.”

“There will be a hue and cry after you, when you are missed.”

“There will be a dance when the croquet is over. I don’t dance--and I
shall not be missed. There will be time, and opportunity to get to
my own room. I shall leave a letter there for Lady Lundie, and a
letter”--her voice trembled for a moment--“and a letter for Blanche.
Don’t interrupt me! I have thought of this, as I have thought of every
thing else. The confession I shall make will be the truth in a few
hours, if it’s not the truth now. My letters will say I am privately
married, and called away unexpectedly to join my husband. There will be
a scandal in the house, I know. But there will be no excuse for sending
after me, when I am under my husband’s protection. So far as you are
personally concerned there are no discoveries to fear--and nothing which
it is not perfectly safe and perfectly easy to do. Wait here an hour
after I have gone to save appearances; and then follow me.”

“Follow you?” interposed Geoffrey. “Where?” She drew her chair nearer to
him, and whispered the next words in his ear.

“To a lonely little mountain inn--four miles from this.”

“An inn!”

“Why not?”

“An inn is a public place.”

A movement of natural impatience escaped her--but she controlled
herself, and went on as quietly as before:

“The place I mean is the loneliest place in the neighborhood. You have
no prying eyes to dread there. I have picked it out expressly for that
reason. It’s away from the railway; it’s away from the high-road: it’s
kept by a decent, respectable Scotchwoman--”

“Decent, respectable Scotchwomen who keep inns,” interposed Geoffrey,
“don’t cotton to young ladies who are traveling alone. The landlady
won’t receive you.”

It was a well-aimed objection--but it missed the mark. A woman bent on
her marriage is a woman who can meet the objections of the whole world,
single-handed, and refute them all.

“I have provided for every thing,” she said, “and I have provided for
that. I shall tell the landlady I am on my wedding-trip. I shall say
my husband is sight-seeing, on foot, among the mountains in the
neighborhood--”

“She is sure to believe that!” said Geoffrey.

“She is sure to _dis_believe it, if you like. Let her! You have only
to appear, and to ask for your wife--and there is my story proved to be
true! She may be the most suspicious woman living, as long as I am alone
with her. The moment you join me, you set her suspicions at rest. Leave
me to do my part. My part is the hard one. Will you do yours?”

It was impossible to say No: she had fairly cut the ground from under
his feet. He shifted his ground. Any thing rather than say Yes!

“I suppose _you_ know how we are to be married?” he asked. “All I can
say is--_I_ don’t.”

“You do!” she retorted. “You know that we are in Scotland. You know that
there are neither forms, ceremonies, nor delays in marriage, here. The
plan I have proposed to you secures my being received at the inn, and
makes it easy and natural for you to join me there afterward. The
rest is in our own hands. A man and a woman who wish to be married (in
Scotland) have only to secure the necessary witnesses and the thing is
done. If the landlady chooses to resent the deception practiced on her,
after that, the landlady may do as she pleases. We shall have gained
our object in spite of her--and, what is more, we shall have gained it
without risk to _you._”

“Don’t lay it all on my shoulders,” Geoffrey rejoined. “You women
go headlong at every thing. Say we are married. We must separate
afterward--or how are we to keep it a secret?”

“Certainly. You will go back, of course, to your brother’s house, as if
nothing had happened.”

“And what is to become of _you?_”

“I shall go to London.”

“What are you to do in London?”

“Haven’t I already told you that I have thought of every thing? When I
get to London I shall apply to some of my mother’s old friends--friends
of hers in the time when she was a musician. Every body tells me I have
a voice--if I had only cultivated it. I _will_ cultivate it! I can live,
and live respectably, as a concert singer. I have saved money enough to
support me, while I am learning--and my mother’s friends will help me,
for her sake.”

So, in the new life that she was marking out, was she now unconsciously
reflecting in herself the life of her mother before her. Here was the
mother’s career as a public singer, chosen (in spite of all efforts to
prevent it) by the child! Here (though with other motives, and under
other circumstances) was the mother’s irregular marriage in Ireland,
on the point of being followed by the daughter’s irregular marriage in
Scotland! And here, stranger still, was the man who was answerable for
it--the son of the man who had found the flaw in the Irish marriage, and
had shown the way by which her mother was thrown on the world! “My Anne
is my second self. She is not called by her father’s name; she is called
by mine. She is Anne Silvester as I was. Will she end like Me?”--The
answer to those words--the last words that had trembled on the dying
mother’s lips--was coming fast. Through the chances and changes of many
years, the future was pressing near--and Anne Silvester stood on the
brink of it.

“Well?” she resumed. “Are you at the end of your objections? Can you
give me a plain answer at last?”

No! He had another objection ready as the words passed her lips.

“Suppose the witnesses at the inn happen to know me?” he said. “Suppose
it comes to my father’s ears in that way?”

“Suppose you drive me to my death?” she retorted, starting to her feet.
“Your father shall know the truth, in that case--I swear it!”

He rose, on his side, and drew back from her. She followed him up. There
was a clapping of hands, at the same moment, on the lawn. Somebody had
evidently made a brilliant stroke which promised to decide the game.
There was no security now that Blanche might not return again. There
was every prospect, the game being over, that Lady Lundie would be free.
Anne brought the interview to its crisis, without wasting a moment more.

“Mr. Geoffrey Delamayn,” she said. “You have bargained for a private
marriage, and I have consented. Are you, or are you not, ready to marry
me on your own terms?”

“Give me a minute to think!”

“Not an instant. Once for all, is it Yes, or No?”

He couldn’t say “Yes,” even then. But he said what was equivalent to it.
He asked, savagely, “Where is the inn?”

She put her arm in his, and whispered, rapidly, “Pass the road on the
right that leads to the railway. Follow the path over the moor, and the
sheep-track up the hill. The first house you come to after that is the
inn. You understand!”

He nodded his head, with a sullen frown, and took his pipe out of his
pocket again.

“Let it alone this time,” he said, meeting her eye. “My mind’s upset.
When a man’s mind’s upset, a man can’t smoke. What’s the name of the
place?”

“Craig Fernie.”

“Who am I to ask for at the door?”

“For your wife.”

“Suppose they want you to give your name when you get there?”

“If I must give a name, I shall call myself Mrs., instead of Miss,
Silvester. But I shall do my best to avoid giving any name. And you will
do your best to avoid making a mistake, by only asking for me as your
wife. Is there any thing else you want to know?”

“Yes.”

“Be quick about it! What is it?”

“How am I to know you have got away from here?”

“If you don’t hear from me in half an hour from the time when I have
left you, you may be sure I have got away. Hush!”

Two voices, in conversation, were audible at the bottom of the
steps--Lady Lundie’s voice and Sir Patrick’s. Anne pointed to the door
in the back wall of the summer-house. She had just pulled it to again,
after Geoffrey had passed through it, when Lady Lundie and Sir Patrick
appeared at the top of the steps.


